# Covid19 Edition

In this lab, you will work with your second notebook. A notebook is an
interactive environment where you can analyze data for decision
making. You will complete the rest of your labs in R Markdown
notebooks. You will learn more about this format by _doing_.  I will
add content formatting, in-line code, etc. It's an easy way to learn.

A html_notebook is only one of the many destination formats for R
Markdown. R Markdown can be used to produce HTML, PDF, Word, etc. With
some practice, you can build a web-dashboard or you can write a
research artible suitable for publication in a journal.

The ability to produce a Word file is nice. But it isn't why we are
spending so much time on this topic. Healthcare, psychology, and many
other human-oriented scientific fields are in the midst of a
non-Covid19 crisis. R Markdown (and similar projects) seek to address
one facet of this crisis, reproducibility.

> That God is colouring Newton does shew, And the devil is a Black
> outline, all of us know.
>
> -- William Blake, ‘To Venetian Artists’ ^[Blake W. 1972 Complete writings, p.
> 554. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.]

By 1704, when he published his book Opticks, Sir Isaac Newton was
already a famous scientist, thanks to Principia, which was released
in 1687. ^[[Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia
Mathematica](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophiæ_Naturalis_Principia_Mathematica)]
Although Opticks was published over 300 years ago, we can still
reproduce his experiments. In fact, the methodology of the book,
focused on he results of experimentation, we as revolutionary as the
ideas themselves.^[Newton's ideas were ultimately replaced by Huygens'
wave theory of light, but that is not the point of this discussion.]

> My Design in this Book is not to explain the Properties of Light by
> Hypotheses, but to propose and prove them by Reason and Experiments.

Other scientists accepted these new ideas, not because they came from
a book written by Newton, but because they could reproduce the
experiments in their own laboratories. He included detailed
instructions and described his equipment/setup in great detail because
he WANTED other scientists to verify his claims.

Contrast this to our situation today: [Living in the Reproducibility
Crisis](https://blogs.plos.org/thestudentblog/2019/11/18/living-in-the-reproducibility-crisis/)

Statisticians can use reproducibility tools such as R Markdown,
Jupyter Lab, etc. to ensure that other researchers can reproduce their
results, if given similar data. This does not necessarily mean the
results are correct. The analysis could be flawed or there coud be
some unexpected bias in the data. But, given the same data, other
researchers should be able to reproduce even non-trivial analyses,
with exact precision.

Enjoy this rather silly video that goes right to the heart of the
problem: [Can I have your data?](https://www.youtube.com/embed/66oNv_DJuPc)

# Lab 11 - Covid 19 Edition!

Please watch the following You Tube clip, which is an excellent
explanation of some of the basic math behind our lab today: [How To
Tell If We're Beating
COVID-19](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=54XLXg4fYsc&feature=youtu.be)
Unlike the previous video, this video is actually important. This
week's lab won't make much sense with out it.

[Lab 11 - Covid19 Edition!](https://github.com/intro-to-data/Labs/blob/master/Week%2011/Lab%2011%20-%20Covid19%20Edition.Rmd)
